.. _hgmo_mozbuildinfo:

==================
moz.build Metadata
==================

hg.mozilla.org has the ability to extract and render metadata from
`moz.build files <https://gecko.readthedocs.org/en/latest/build/buildsystem/mozbuild-files.html>`_.

Web Command
===========

On repositories that have this feature enabled, a new web command is
available: ``mozbuildinfo``. Requests to this web command have the
form::

   /<repo>/json-mozbuildinfo[/<rev>][?p=<path1>[&p=<path2>]]

By default, requests return moz.build info for all files changed by the
current ``tip`` changeset. To specify which changeset should be
returned, the hash of that changeset can be specified as a URL
component. To change which files have their metadata resolved, pass the
``p`` query string argument 1 or more times with the filename(s) you are
interested in.

The response from this web command is JSON. It looks something like::

  {
    "aggregate": {
      "bug_component_counts": [
        [
          [
            "Core",
            "Build Config"
          ],
          1
        ]
      ],
      "recommended_bug_component": [
        "Core",
        "Build Config"
      ]
    },
    "files": {
      "Makefile.in": {
        "bug_component": [
          "Core",
          "Build Config"
        ]
      }
    }
  }

The JSON object typically contains a ``files`` object containing
per-file metadata and an ``aggregate`` object containing, well,
aggregate data from all files.

If an error occurs, the object will have an ``error`` property
containing a string error message.

The data inside the JSON is generated by the
`mozbuild <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mozbuild>`_ Python package,
whose canonical home lives in the
`python/mozbuild <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/python/mozbuild>`_
directory of `mozilla-central <https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central>`_.
The `mozbuild.frontend.context <https://dxr.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/source/python/mozbuild/mozbuild/frontend/context.py>`_
module is likely of the most interest.

Security of moz.build Evaluation
================================

moz.build files are Python files. By evaluating moz.build files
checked into version control, we are essentially enabling remote
code execution. The security of the moz.build evaluation implementation
is thus critically important.

It is essentially impossible to properly sandbox Python code from within
(C)Python itself. Many have tried. They have all failed. So while
moz.build files themselves are executed within a limited sandbox, this
sandbox only reduces functionality initially available to moz.build files
and doesn't comprise a security sandbox.

When the ``mozbuildinfo`` web command is requested, the following occurs
on the server:

1. A WSGI process running as the *hg* user receives the request.
2. The ``mozbuildinfo`` web command handler is invoked
3. We verify that moz.build evaluation is enabled for the repository (it
   isn't enabled by default).
4. We verify that a wrapper script is installed (we don't allow
   executing moz.build files in the same process as the WSGI handler).
5. We verify additional request parameters.
6. We invoke the ``mozbuild-eval`` executable using ``sudo``, passing
   JSON describing the request to it. The executable initially runs as
   root.
7. ``mozbuild-eval`` calls the ``clone()`` system call to create a new
   process with new namespaces for most Linux primitives (IPC, network,
   mount, pid, UTC).
8. The new process is moved to a special control group which has
   resource and device access limits in place.
9. The mounts in the new process are reset and all mounts besides a
   read-only loopback mount containing repository contents are removed.
   This includes ``procfs`` and ``/dev``.
10. We ``chroot()`` into a new directory, which contains only the Python
    code needed to evaluate moz.build files.
11. The real, effective, and saved GID and UID of the process are
    changed to a low-privileged user.
12. We fork a new Python process to evaluate the moz.build files
    metadata.

The process evaluating moz.build files:

- Is running as a regular user/group
- That doesn't have write access to repositories via normal filesystem
  permissions
- That doesn't have write access to repositories via a read-only bind
  mount of the repositories
- Is executing inside a chroot with minimal files available
- Is executing in a control group that doesn't allow access to any
  devices except ``urandom``.
- Is executing in a control group that limits CPU, memory, and I/O usage
- Doesn't have access to ``procfs``
- Doesn't have a handle on any mounts from the host except the bind
  mount
